# Rogulife world

## Setting
A bunch of humans who lived in a fantasy world akin to ones in popular roguelikes like Dungeon Crawl and Dwarf Fortress one day woke up on the island.

Each human has its own history in the normal world but has no idea why and how did they wake up on the island.

## Environment

### Goals
* Should be simple for agents to navigate. For example, crafting is probably will be complicated for agents.
* Should be fairly rich, so it would be interesting.
* Should be as easy to build as possible using cheap methods.
  - An example of such method could be many possible creatures. They just have a bunch of stats and description. Code for creating creature (or just configs for it) and descriptions can be generated by LLMs.

### Map Navigation
This is a very important, novel and complicated part. All previous efforts I am aware of used hardcoded locations. However, this is not suitable for Roguelife.

Agents need to learn the world map. To do so, they need to observe stuff around it and if it is interesing for them they can write it in memory.

So agent AI has: `look around` command. It describes what agent currently sees. Then

### Resources
The main goal for agents similar to many other games and even real life (in a broad sense) is acquiring resources.

There are following kinds of resources:
* Experience -- level ups increase stats.
* Gold -- can be used for trading.
* Equipment -- improves attack or HP.
* Food and water -- required to survive.
* Relationships -- will be useful to gain influence.


### Dungeons
There will be dungeons on the island. They will have many enemies. Agents can enter the dungeon and navigate it.
